Course Scheduler Application

The Course Scheduler Application is a database-driven application that allows students to schedule courses by semester. It includes a user-friendly GUI interface and is built using good Object-Oriented Design and Programming principles.

Features

The Course Scheduler Application includes the following features:

Admin User Functions
Add Semester: Add a new semester to the database.
Add Course: Add a new course to the database, specifying the semester it will be offered, the course code, description, and maximum number of students.
Add Student: Add a new student to the database, specifying the student ID, first name, and last name.
Display Course List of Students: Display a list of all students who are scheduled or waitlisted for a specified course for the current semester.
Drop Student: Remove a student from the list of students and remove them from any courses they are scheduled for in all semesters. Schedule the first student on the waitlist into the course.
Drop Course: Remove a specified course from the current semester. Remove all students scheduled and waitlisted for the course from the Schedule Table.
Student User Functions
Schedule Course: Schedule a student for a specified course for the current semester, if there are available seats. If not, add the student to the waitlist for that course.
Display Schedule: Display the current schedule for a specified student for the current semester.
Display Courses: Display a complete list of courses for the current semester.
Drop Course: Remove a specified course from the student's schedule for the current semester. Schedule the first student waiting for the course into the course.
Testing

The Course Scheduler Application includes a testing script for both Part 1 and Part 2 of the final project, which will assist in testing the application's functionality.

Database

The Course Scheduler Application uses a Derby database, with all tables being empty upon submission of the project.

Requirements

To run the Course Scheduler Application, you will need:

Java SE Development Kit (JDK) 8 or above
Derby database
How to Run

Clone or download the project from the repository.
Install the necessary requirements.
Open the project in your preferred Java IDE.
Run the CourseSchedulerGUI.java file to launch the application.
Credits

The Course Scheduler Application was developed by Krish Shah.